Next up we have a bit of an odd operator in JavaScript called type of we use type of in some situations
to determine the type of a given value.
We simply write type of which always has driven me crazy that it's not camel case like everything else
in JavaScript.
It's type of like this and then a space and then we specify a value like ninety nine and it gives us
a string containing the type I can name of the type number I do type of true we get Boolean if I have
a variable I'll call it mystery and close your eyes.
You do have to close your eyes but let's say this is our mystery how clear the console.
If I do type of mystery it tells us it's a string.
Yes it contains a number at the beginning but that doesn't matter.
It's in quotes.
So it's a String type of with undefined will give us undefined.
Here's a really odd part of JavaScript.
If you do type of null it tells you object.
This is allegedly a mistake a weird quirk that has worked its way into the language over time.
So more of a piece of trivia I guess than something you need to look out for type of often confuses
people because they think you need to use parentheses like you do for console dot log or for what else
have we see in math dot random or these different actions where you pass a value in and use parentheses
to execute it but type of is actually an operator just like the plus sign is we don't do plus sign with
parentheses or minus sign or equal sign.
That's an operator when we say cost X equals 3.
We don't use parents type of is very similar.
It's also an operator.
It just has one side.
So unlike the plus sign where we have two sides left in a right with type of we just type of a value
and that's it.
So not much to it.
I just wanted to show it to you because sometimes it's useful once we get to writing functions in particular.
If you want to check that a user did indeed pass in a number or a function has been called with a number
and not a string then you can use type of.